Prim Minister the security of Israel and
its citizen is something that Germany
defense this is the principle that we
have when we government and Parliament
supports Israel and all parties do the
same and it is very important for me to
emphasize this here in Israel German
history and the responsibility we have
given the history of the Hol
Holocaust mean that it is our task to
stand up for the security of
Israel
hoca
[Music]
ladies and
gent the cruel and bloody attack of
Hamas against Israel is uh condemned by
us the terror against innocent
civilians the killing of innocent people
the murder of babies Abduction of women
men and children the humiliation of
Holocaust Survivors all of
that shocks us
deeply
it is quite clear Israel has the right
to defend itself against this Terror
under international law every state has
the obligation to protect its
citizens
we feel the awful suffering of all
Israelis that have lost parents children
families in this uh barbaric attack we
share the sorrow of all those family
members who have lost members that were
adopted by
ham
among person
Germans we focus on them and all the
other hostages and we try everything we
do to free
them
minister prime minister my
government stands up for this conflict
not to escalate we need to prevent the
spill over into the whole
region and I
warn every actor they should not think
it's a good idea to intervene into this
conflict from the out it would be an
unforgivable mistake and this is a
message we have spread through many
channels to all
those
Minister prime minister Germany and
Israel are united by the fact that we
are Democratic states based on the rule
of law and even in extreme situations we
act on the basis of the law and that is
why we not uh
taking we also taking notice of the
human suffering in and that is why I
have said we need to provide monetary
help to the innocent civilians different
from the Hamas that keep humans as human
Shields we are also concerned about the
civilian population we want to prevent
civilian
casualties
for
with Minister President with prime
minister netan I spoke about the
opportunity of a better human
humanitarian access to Gaza and that is
one of the reasons why I'm going to
travel to Egypt to talk to president Ali
tomorrow talk about the situation and
humanitarian aspects the federal
government is going to continue its
humanitarian commitment to mitigate the
suffering of the civilian
population
allow me at the end of my statement to
make two remarks regarding the situation
in
Germany anti-Semitism has no place in
Germany the celebration and
glorification of violence is inhumane
abhorent it is prescribed and will be
punished
[Music]
in Germany is a gift Jewish institutions
are being protected thank you
thank you Chancellor uh I appreciate all
your statements including your last
reference to protecting uh the Jewish
Community we discussed this um in our
conversation as well the question of uh
uh the safety of civilians uh is
something that is raised by hamas's
actions Hamas is committing a double War
crime not only is that targeting and
murdering civilians with unprecedented
savagery it's hiding behind civilians
their own civilians we are calling on
the civilians to leave Gaza go south to
Safe zones and Hamas is preventing them
often at gunpoint from doing so Hamas
wants to keep them there as a human
shield and prevent uh the people from
leaving and getting out of Harm's Way
it's important that the entire world
understands this the responsibility for
the civilian uh civilians who are there
both the abducted people and both the uh
people who are kept there at force uh
the citizens of our our country and the
citizens of dozens of countries and the
Palestinian civilians themselves that
responsibility is sits squarely on the
shoulders of the Hamas war criminals
they're committing a double War crime
attacking civilians hiding behind
civilians as you Shields the entire
world should condemn it and should
support Israel in its just War thank you
very much and thank you Chancellor thank
you thank
you we just saw a press conference there
with Olaf Schultz who is currently
visiting Israel with Israel's Benjamin
Netanyahu um the German chancellor has
said ahead of this visit that his trip
will be a clear sign of German
solidarity uh for Israel let's dig into
this a little bit more with DW's Chief
political editor Michaela kufner joining
me in the studio Michaela hi we heard
Netanyahu there um painting a very clear
and gruesome picture of hamas's attacks
in Israel calling it a battle for the
future of civilization I'm curious what
you made though of German Chancellor
Schultz's remarks in this press
conference that we just heard yeah let's
just lay out what he said and I first of
all I just want to note that um whatever
comes next this is a historic moment
certainly for Germans um but also um for
the Jewish people because we just saw
the prime minister of Israel standing
there with the chancellor of the nation
that is responsible for the Holocaust
and um we saw the direct reference uh to
the Holocaust I mean this is the the
largest loss of Israeli life since the
Holocaust uh very concrete references
from Benin Netanyahu there um to Bab as
well the Mass Slaughter of Jews in what
is now Ukraine and um the German
Chancellor recognizing this and once
again conveying the message uh that
Germany has made a very unusual
commitment towards Israel uh which is
that it's a fundamental principle of
German of the German state to ensure the
protection of Israel now what that means
in concrete detail uh I think it's a bit
too early to really understand what that
will mean in the end we know that there
has been o so far only a request um for
drones that Germany had leased from
Israel um I think it's noteworthy that
the German Chancellor um reiterated this
message there was this is rhetoric this
is what we've heard before um we heard
this in the German Parliament and he's
also very eager to stress that Germany
will clamp down it will use the full
force of the law to clamp down on anti
any
anti-semitic demonstrations here in
Germany any potential actions against
Jews because Jews in this country they
are afraid looking at what happened but
the clear condemnation of Hamas and a
clear responsibility that rests with
Hamas for whatever is to come and that
is something that is concerning the
entire world now course so this was a
hugely symbolic moment as you say uh has
it already been clear though in
Practical terms what kind of support
Germany is going to be offering Israel
as Schultz takes this trip to the region
well we have this um commitment by
Germany and a request um to basically
for Benjamin Netanyahu to tell Germany
whatever he wants and that Germany will
consider this what we didn't hear from
the German chancel also when he spoke in
charlian that Germany will give whatever
Israel requests but that it would
whatever is requested would be
considered now initially it looked like
it requested ammunition for some of it
um warships that request was actually
withdrawn and there are a lot of
practical reasons behind that um Israel
is very much armed with its own um
Hardware but also mainly American um
military hardware so that is the first
reference point I think there are very
practical reasons behind that so it
wasn't a good fit is that what you're
saying well that is what I'm being told
by military experts but I'm not a
military expert by any means but this is
that is not widely expected here but
full political support is expected and I
think we saw in that interaction there
were no questions taken um that um also
the German chancellor who is there to
basically show solidarity and reassure
uh an Israeli Prime Minister who clearly
you can you can see under how much
pressure he is at this very moment in
time to prove that this state can
protect its citizens as well um that
Germany is firmly at the side of Israel
while at the same time maintain
maintaining international law and
him basically calling for the protection
of civilian life which let's translate
it into non-political speak uh means to
at least minimize civilian casualties in
the Gaza Strip um more than a million
citizens of Gaza have been called upon
to move to the other end of the country
it is unclear how many lives that will
actually cost simply asking them to move
uh so there is an
underlying tension uh within this that
Germany wants to maintain its role as a
mediator and we're also seeing the
German Chancellor travel on to Egypt um
to make the case for humanitarian Aid to
go into Gaza at the same time so I think
we will observe over the coming days and
weeks um what that commitment of uh
Israeli security being a fundamental
principle of German policy means in
Practical terms and whether
trying to ensure Israeli security might
also mean that Germany doesn't always
agree completely with what action Israel
chooses to take as we are all awaiting
for that ground um offensive to start
yeah thank you so much for joining us to
break that down that is DW's Chief
political editor Michaela kufner we
really appreciate your time
today now Hamas which the EU uh the
United States and some Arab states label
as a terrorist group abducted nearly 200
people during their massacre in Israel
the mother of one French Israeli hostage
has made a desperate plea for her
daughter's release I didn't know if
she's dead or alive until
yesterday all I knew is that she's May
might be
kidnapped
um I'm begging the world to bring my
baby back
home she only went to a party to a
festival party to have some
fun and now she's in
Gaza it's difficult testimony to hear
there I want to bring in DW's senior
International correspondent of funny
faar reporting for us from Tel Aviv
funny Israel is in a difficult position
here isn't it um how can it ensure the
safety of hostages that are believed to
being be being held in Gaza while it is
current ly bombing the Gaza
Strip Israel is basically facing a huge
dilemma here because when we are talking
about Hamas militants we're talking
about a vast Labyrinth of at least an
estimated 400 kilomet long tunnel system
like an underground city the entrances
to these tunnels are basically close to
schools close to hospitals in a very
densely populated area so the goal of
Israel trying to root out Hamas but also
obviously rescue those hostages and
estimate at 199 hostages that's the
current number that Israel is working
with is a huge challenge nobody knows
how that's going to work if you in fact
look back at the history 2014 the last
Gaza War Israel was not able to uh root
out and eliminate Hamas militants so how
is it going to work this time now what
the US is trying to do is influence
Israel trying to have an impact with
regard to how to create safe zones with
the help of Israel but also how to make
sure that it gets into gaza's STP
because so far nobody's getting out from
the Gaza Strip pretty much the only
possible opening to the world would be
the rougher border crossing with Egypt
but that also remains closed and as we
are speaking by the hour people there in
Gaza Strip are really very much running
out of the very Basics and I'm talking
also about the basics in terms of fuel
that you need to actually go from the
northern part of Gaza Strip to the South
where these safe zones are to be
established but there are no concrete
details here no concrete plans that have
been shared and while all of this is
happening all this diplomacy of course
that question also remains just when
that ground offensive is going to start
and how that is going to cause another
consequence for all those people who are
basically trapped in Gaza Strip yes
lacking food Fuel and water um and Aid
agency desperate to get that in I want
to come back to the issue of the
hostages as we've seen there are many
foreigners as well among the hostages
that have been abducted what role are
foreign governments playing in trying to
secure their
release Germany for example represented
here by German Chancellor Schultz today
uh who also is urging to uh for the
release of for example German hostages
but obviously old hostages what they're
trying to do is trying to explore who
has most information and contacts with
Hamas militants and this is where
actually Qatar plays a significant role
in fact early on Qatar has offered uh
the help to someone negotiate one has to
understand that Qatar is basically the
main financial backer of hamus Militan
so so they do get kind of an an an an an
a leverage here at least it seems that
if somebody can help release the
hostages then it will probably go
through the efforts of Qatar but that
being said and you may see all the
protesters here behind me asking for the
release of those hostages making sure
they do not become a collateral damage
as a uh ground offensive is lo looming
nobody knows whether uh the release is
going to be possible with or without
Qatar at this point nobody even knows
what the state of this hostages is thank
you so much for reporting that is DW's
funny Fatar in Tel
Aviv and that is your news update at
this hour if you want more there is more
news and Analysis online at dw.com or
you can follow us on social media at DW
news thank you so much for
[Music]
watching